## 17.2 Combining like types: Semigroups.

>**Semigroup**
>In mathematics, a *semigroup* is an [[algebraic-structure|algebraic structure]] consisting of a set together with an associative binary operation. *([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semigroup))*

- Per Hoogle "types with an associative binary operation".
- Book says, "combining instances of the same type".
- Has only one method `<>`

## 17.2.2 Making Color associative using gards

- Guards are like pattern matching but allow you to do some computation on the arguments you're going to compare.

## 17.3 Composing with identity: Monoids

>**Monoid**
>A *monoid* is a set equipped with an associative binary operation and an identity element. Monoids are [[glossary-math/semigroup|semigroups]] with an identity element.

- The only major differencee between `Semigroup` and `Monoid` is that `Monoid` requires an identity element for the type.
- Having an identity is useful but it "generally increases the power of a type by allowing you to use a fold function to easily combine lists of the same type".

> `Monoid` should be a subclass of `Semigroup` but it isn't because `Monoid`'s inclusion in Haskell predates `Semigroup`.
> Because of this `Monoid` has `mempty` instead of `identity` and `mappened` instead of <>


- The most common `Monoid` is a list
	-  `[]` is the identity.
	- `++`  is the `<>` operator

`mconcat` takes a list of `Monoid`s and combines them returning a single `Monoid`

```haskell
>  mconcat ["does"," this"," make"," sense?"]
-- "does this make sense?"
```

When defining a `Monoid`, when you define `mempty` and `mappend` Haskell can/will automatically infer `mconcat` for you. The definition of `mconcat is`:

```haskell
mconcat = foldr mappend mempty
```

## 17.3.2 Monoid laws

> [!WARNING]
> The laws of monoids in mathmatics are not the same as the laws of monoids in Haskell. This is true for other algebraic data structures as well. However, they are related.

It is best to see the book (page 195, section 17.3.2) for this but here is a brief summary:

1. `mappend mempty x` is `x`.
2. `mappend x mempty` is `x` (the first reversed).
3. `mappend x (mappend y z) = mappend (mappend x y) z` (associativity).
4. `mconcat = foldr mappend mempty`

