# 4 Case Expressions and Pattern Matching

> Pattern matching provides a way to "dispatch control" based on structural properties of a value.

You can match on data constructor patterns such as

```haskell
length :: [a] -> Int
length [] = 0
length (x:xs) = 1 + length xs
```

This works for user defined types as well.


*Formal parameters* are patterns but they never fail to match a value.

- *Irrefutable patterns* are patterns such as formal parameters that never fail to match.
-  *Refutable patters* are patterns which may fail.

### As-patterns

 ```haskell
 f (x:s) = x:x:xs
 ```

 can be written using an  *as pattern*

 ```haskell
 f s@(x:xs) = x:s
 ```

 ### Wild-cards

```haskell
head (x:_)             = x  
tail (_:xs)            = xs
```

	 I am not able to find `_` in hoogle but it does seem to be the character used for wildcards.

## 4.1 Pattern-Matching Semantics

Pattern matching can either
- fail
- succeed
- diverge: occurs when a value needed by the patter contains an error ($\perp$).

The matching process ocurrs "top-down, left-to-right".

If all patterns fail the value of the function application is $\perp$ and results in a run-time error.

Top-level patterns may have a boolean *guard*.

```haskell
sign x | x >  0 =  1
       | x == 0 =  0
	   | x <  0 = -1
```

## 4.3 Case Expressions

The book implies three types of pattern matching:
1. pattern matching in function definitions (left of `=`)
2. "case expressions" which is pattern matching on the right of `=`.
3. "lazy patterns"
 
Quote from book: "In many circumstances we don't wish to define a _function_ every time we need to do this, but so far we have only shown how to do pattern matching in function definitions. Haskell's _case expression_ provides a way to solve this problem."

Oddly, I didn't know what this meant at first. Looking at the below function ...
	
```haskell
take m ys        = case (m,ys) of  
					 (0,_)       ->  []  
					 (_,[])      ->  []  
					 (n,x:xs)    ->  x : take (n-1) xs
```

The "function definition" is on the left side of `=` and the "pattern matching outside of a function definition" is in the body of the function on the right side of `=`. (duh)

The types of the right-hand sides of a case expression or set of equations comprising a function definition must all be the same; more precisely, they must all share a common principal type.



## 4.4 Lazy Patterns

Syntax
`~pattern` but the write it as `~pat`

Example 

```haskell
client init ~(resp:resps) = init : client (next resp) resps
```

Lazy patterns are irrefutable

### Pattern binding

```haskell
fib@(1:tfib)    = 1 : 1 : [ a+b | (a,b) <- zip fib tfib ]
```

- `fib@(1:tfib` is a pattern binding.
- All are implicitly lazy (have a `~` in front of them) because this is the most common behavior expected of pattern bindings.

## 4.5 Lexical Scoping and Nested Forms

Haskell has 2 ways of creating local scope in an expression, `let` expressions & `where` clauses.

### Let Expressions

Only declarations permitted are:
- type signatures
- function bindings
- pattern bindings

		The book has an example that seems to be invalid syntax. Learn this elsewhere.

### Where Clauses

```haskell
f x y  |  y>z           =  ...  
       |  y==z          =  ...  
       |  y<z           =  ...  
 where z = x*x
```

`where`
- is only allowd at the top level of a set of equations or case expressions

> A `let` expression is an  *expression* whereas a `where` clause is part of the dyntax of function declarations and case expressions.

