# 5 Types Classes and Overloading
% %

Not said in the book but seems to me that (needs confirmation):
- **Classes** contain types for the class and its methods.
- **Instances** contain definitions/implementation of the methods
- **NAH** - see ghc/libraries/ghc-prim/GHC/Classes.hs line 324 where `Ord` is defined. It is a class extension and has both the types & the implementation.
- Well maybe **YAH**  - because that code in Classes.hs might be a default implementation

% %

**ad hoc polymorphism**

aka:   *overloading*

> Differs from parametric polymorphism which has been discussed in previous chapters.

**Examples**

- The literals 1, 2, etc. are often used to represent both fixed and arbitrary precision integers.
- Numeric operators such as + are often defined to work on many different kinds of numbers.
- The equality operator (== in Haskell) usually works on numbers and many other (but not all) types.

**Type classes**

This part of the book is written poorly. It presents two problems that *type classes* solve:
1. One would expect `elem` to have type `a->[a]->Bool`. But it isn't defined for all types.
2. Its definition can differ depending on type type it is used on: "Comparing two lists for equality is very different than"

**Problem 1**
- `elem` "ought" to be `a->[a]->Bool`
- but that would imply that `==` has the type `a->a->Bool`
- even though we don't expect `== to be defined for all types` (note that in `a->a->Bool`, `a` is any type.)

**Problem 2**
- even if `==` were defined on all types
- comparing two lists for equality is very different from comparing two integers
- **so**, we expect `==` to be overloaded so that it can work on various types.

**Solution is Type classes**

*Type classes*
1. allow us to declare which types are instances of which class
2. and, provide definitions of the overloaded operations associated with a class.

So, the `Eq` class is defined as

```haskell
class Eq a where   
  (==)                  :: a -> a -> Bool
```

`elem` is defined as

```haskell
elem                    :: (Eq a) => a -> [a] -> Bool
```

Which says: 
- "For every type that is an instance of `Eq`, 
- `==` has type `a->a->Bool`

This is the type that would be used for `==`

```haskell
elem                    :: (Eq a) => a -> [a] -> Bool
```

Says:
- For ever type that is an instnace of class `Eq`
- `elem` has type `a->[a]->Bool`

Therefore:
- `elem` is not defined on all types
- it is only defined on types, "for which we know how to compare elements for equality".

To specify 
- which types are instances of the class `Eq`
- and the actual behavior of `==` on each of those types

You use an *instance declaration*

```haskell
instance Eq Integer where
  x == y                = x `integerEq` y
```

The definition of `==` is called a *method*.

This says: "The type Integer is an instance of the class Eq, and here is the definition of the method corresponding to the operation `==`."

But that is only for fixed precision integers. To compare floating point numbers using `==` there is another instance:

```haskell
instance Eq Float where  
 x == y                =  x `floatEq` y
```

**Class extension**

```haskell
class  (Eq a) => Ord a  where  
  (<), (<=), (>=), (>)  :: a -> a -> Bool  
  max, min              :: a -> a -> a
```

`Ord` is a class which inherits all of the operation in `Eq` but adds a set of comparison operations plus `min` & `max`.

We say that 
- `Eq` is a *superclass* of `Ord`
- `Ord` is a *subclass* or `Eq`

A type class that uses toperations from both `Eq` and `Ord` can use the context `(Ord a)` rather than `(Eqa, Ord a)` since `Ord` implies `Eq`.

A class may have more than one superclass (i.e., mutiple inheritance). E.g., 

```haskell
class (Eq a, Show a) => C a where ...
```














- `Eq` is the name of the class
- `==` is the single operation in the class
- `Eq` 
	- is not a type expression.
	- it expresses a **constraint**
	- and is called a **context**
- 
