# 9 About Monads

#monad

The `Monad` class defines two basic operators
- bind: `>>=` and `>>`
- return: `return`

```haskell
infixl 1  >>, >>=  
class  Monad m  where  
	(>>=)            :: m a -> (a -> m b) -> m b  
	(>>)             :: m a -> m b -> m b  
	return           :: a -> m a  
	fail             :: String -> m a  
	
	m >> k           =  m >>= \_ -> k
```

The bind operations (`>>=` and `>>`) combine two monadic values while the `return` operation injects a value into the monad (container).




The signature of >>= helps us to understand this operation: 
`ma >>= \v -> mb` 
- combines 
	- a monadic value `ma` containing values of type `a` 
	- and a function which operates on a value `v` of type `a`, 
	- returning the monadic value `mb`. 
	- The result is to combine ma and mb into a monadic value containing b. 
	- The >> function is used when the function does not need the value produced by the first monadic operator. (I don't get this yet. If you don't need it then why include it?)

**My interpretation of:**
`(>>=) :: m a -> (a -> m b) -> m b`

- `m` is a monad which is a container so I'll say "container"
- `m a` a container of a
- `(a -> m b)` a function that takes an `a` and returns a container of `b`
-  `-> m b` returns a container of `b`


The meaning of the binding depends on the monad.
- The in the IO monad `x >>= y` performs two actions sequentially, passing the result of the first to the second.
- For lists & `Maybe` they (can be understood in terms of) pass zero or more values from one calculation to the next.

`do` syntax provides a shorhand for monadic operations

```haskell
do e1 ; e2      = e1 >> e2  
do p <- e1; e2  = e1 >>= \p -> e2
```

Regarding the 2nd example:
*unsure/guessing here*
- `e1 >>= \p -> e2` seems to be the results of `e1` passed as the input `p` to `e2`
- so in `do p <- e1; e2` it 

# Switching Sources

> After this the book gets too complicated to continue. Am taking a divergence to [All About Monads](https://wiki.haskell.org/All_About_Monads) from wiki.haskell.org.

In F#, monads are called workflows.

## Some Monads
- **List** is a monad. It is a very basic collection of items of the same type with some easy-to-understand behavior and performance characteristics.

- **Maybe** is a monad, which recuses you from having to write lots of null pointer checks.

- **I/O** is a monad that makes it possible to interact with a program.

Monads allow you to compose computations into more complex computations.

## Maybe

Definition of Maybe

```haskell
data Maybe a = Nothing | Just a
```

You can constuct a data value by applying `Just`:
```haskell
country = Just "Taiwan"
```

You can construct a type by applying `Maybe`
```haskell
lookupAge :: DB -> String -> Maybe Int
-- lookupAge takes a DB and a String and returns a Maybe Int
```


Polymorphic types are like containers that are capable of holding values of many different types. So `Maybe Int` can be thought of as a `Maybe` container holding an `Int` value (or `Nothing`).

We could write `m a` to represent a container of some type holding a value of some type.

`Maybe a` is the type of all computations that may return a value or `Nothing`.
