

# What is `fmap` of `fmap`?

> I think: It is not composition. There is only one function. 

What is the type of `fmap`
```haskell
fmap :: Functor f => (a -> b) -> f a -> f b
```

What on earth is the type of `fmap . fmap`
```haskell
fmap . fmap :: (Functor f1, Functor f2) => (a -> b) -> f1 (f2 a) -> f1 (f2 b)
```

> I think I see composition there but I think it isn't because there is only one function
> 
> What is the relationship between `(fmap . fmap)` and composition?

So what is the type of `fmap . fmap . fmap`
```haskell
fmap . fmap . fmap
  :: (Functor f1, Functor f2, Functor f3) =>
     (a -> b) -> f1 (f2 (f3 a)) -> f1 (f2 (f3 b))
```

Let's line them up
```haskell
:: Functor f                            => (a -> b) -> f a            -> f b             -- [A]
:: (Functor f1, Functor f2)             => (a -> b) -> f1 (f2 a)      -> f1 (f2 b)       -- [B]
:: (Functor f1, Functor f2, Functor f3) => (a -> b) -> f1 (f2 (f3 a)) -> f1 (f2 (f3 b))  -- [C]
```

A. There is a container with a value. The passed-in function modifies that value.
B. There is a container whose value is a container which contains a value. The passed-in function modifies that value.
C. There is a container whose value is a container, whose value is a container which contains a value. The passed-in function modifies that value.

 *`f` for passed-in function, `v` for value*
A. `Container f v`
B. `Container(Container(Container f v))`
C. `Container(Container(Container f v))`

That seems to sum it up. I likely still have questions but that is good for now. For example: The above is "how" it works but "why" is outstanding.

## Some of my original thinking - is incomplete

I'm trying to understand the following from a book. I think I got it but would like to be sure.

```haskell
lms = [Just "Ave",Nothing,Just "woohoo"]

replaceWithP = const 'p'

aa = fmap . fmap
```

First was to understand there are two functors `[]` & `Maybe` - `[Just x]`.
> Actually, there are 3: `[]`, `Maybe` & `String` . Therefore, you can do `fmap . fmap . fmap`.

Then I realized that `f1` is the `[]` & `f2` is the `Maybe`.

But I still thought of it as:

The first `fmap` would replace the `x` in `Just x`  such that applying the first `fmap` would produce `[Just 'p',Nothing,Just 'p']`.

The second `fmap` would do the same as
```haskell
ghci> fmap replaceWithP lms
"ppp"
```

But that isn't the case.

The first `fmap` is
```haskell
fmap replaceWithP Just x
```

The second `fmap` is
```haskell
fmap 
```
