# Parameterized Types

- Types take arguments lie functions
- Types take arguments using type variables in their definitions
- Therefore, their arguments are always other types

## Quick Check 18.2

Q. What's the difference between `transform` & `map`?
A. Not sure if the question is about 'transform' in general or just the `transform` function in Listing 18.8. If the latter than
	- The transform function doesn’t allow you to change the type; that is, a function (a -> b). The map function for lists does allow this.


## 18.1.2 Lists

- `List` is a parameterized type

### Formal definition of the `List` type.
```haskell
data [] a = [] | a:[a]
```

- `[]` is a built-in syntaxt for list. You cannot emulate it (write your own version).


## 18.2.1 Tuples
- Tuples are the most ubiquitous *multiparameter type* in Haskell

## 18.2.2 Kinds: types of types

- The type of a type is called its *kind*.
- The kind of a type indicates the number of parameters the type takes, which is expressed using an asterisk (*).

| types that take | have kind |
| - | - |
| no parameters |  `*` |
| 1 parameter | `* -> *` |
| 2 parameters | `* -> * -> *` |

- In GHCi use the `:kind` / `:k` command to see a types kind.

## 18.2.3 Data.Map

Import it qualified
```haskell
import qualified Data.Map as Map
```

You can populate a `Map` using `fromList`
```haskell
fromList :: Ord k => [(k,a)] -> Map k a
```

Note that it tales a list of pairs `[(k,a)]`.

Use these lists
```haskell
data Organ = Heart | Brain | Kidney | Spleen deriving (Show, Eq)

organs :: [Organ]
organs = [Heart,Heart,Brain,Spleen,Spleen,Kidney]

ids :: [Int]
ids = [2,7,13,14,21,24]
```

Since `fromList` needs a list of tuples, use zip
```haskell
pairs = zip ids organs
```

Add them to the map
```haskell
organCatalog :: Map.Map Int Organ
organCatalog = Map.fromList organPairs
```

> `Map.Map` seems confusing at first. However, the first `Map` represents the `Map` alias specified in the import and the second `Map` is the actuall `Map` instance.

Use `Map.lookup` to get the value of an entry
```haskell
> Map.lookup 7 organCatalog
Just Heart -- you get a Maybe :)
```