## 4.2 Keep Your Programs Tidy

## Let
- a `let` expression 
- provides local scope. 
- has a series of equations defining variable values
- and a final expression (after the `in` keyword) that computes a value with those variables in scope.

```haskell
let x = 2
in x*x
```

```haskell
let x = 2
    y = 3
in x+y
```

## Where clauses

The `where` keyword, inside an equation, provides definitions for variables that are used in the equation.

## How Let & Where Differ

- `let` expressions are expressions; let can be used anywhere an expression is allowed.
- `where` clauses are not expressions; they can be used only to provide some local variables for a top level equation.


## Guards

Guards are a way of defining functions based on predicate values.

```haskell
absolute x
  | x<0 = -x
  | otherwise = x
```

- There is no `=` on the first line
- but there is after each predicate.
- `otherwise` is the default case.

## Case expressions

The `case` expression examines a value and chooses the corresponding clause. It does pattern matching.

**Example 1**
```haskell
data Pet = Cat | Dog | Fish

hello :: Pet -> String
hello x = 
  case x of
    Cat -> "meeow"
    Dog -> "woof"
    Fish -> "bubble"
```

**Example 2**
```haskell
data Pet = Cat | Dog | Fish | Parrot String

hello :: Pet -> String
hello x = 
  case x of
    Cat -> "meeow"
    Dog -> "woof"
    Fish -> "bubble"
    Parrot name -> "pretty " ++ name
```

- Parrot is added.
- It taks a string.

> Another way of saying it is `Parrot` holds a `String` within it. That sounds as if data types are containers for types that hold values - wonder if that is an accurate statement.

When using `hello` with a `Parrot` 
- the name string is required
- `()` are required to group the type with the string
	- The `()` are needed because function application has precedence over the Parrot data constructor :)
- For example

```haskell
> hello (Parrot "bolly")
"pretty bolly"
```


```haskell

lastbut1 :: Foldable f => f a -> a

lastbut1 :: Foldable a => a -> a

```

## 4.4 Dealing with Uncertanity

`Maybe` indicates success or failure of computation.

```haskell
maxhelper :: Int -> [Int] -> Int
maxhelper x [] = x
maxhelper x (y:ys) = maxhelper 
	(if x>y then x else y) ys

maxfromlist :: [Int] -> Maybe Int
maxfromlist [] = Nothing
maxfromlist (x:xs) = maxhelper x xs
{- I'm a bit surprised that maxfromlist turned out to be non-recursive. It is because it uses maxhelper wil will return the greatest value. I would never write it that way so I'll chalk that up to this just being a fucky example. -}
```

"The `Maybe` type means that the type checker gurantees the client code will check the result of the computation, probably with a case expression."

### Propergating Maybe values

Can be done (or is done?) with Monads.

> The teacher gave an example of using `fmap` as a way of getting a function `inc = (+)` to work with `Maybe`. However, this will not be elaborated on until later in the course so just file it away for now.


## 4.6 # Parsing Text Using Higher-Order Functions

- `<|>`: **choice combinator**
	- Try one parser, if that fails then try another

```haskell
letter_digit :: Parser Char
letter_digit =
  do  x <- letter <|> digit
      return x
```


