- Haskell does not have statements.
	- In other languages, sstatements handle sequencing, looping and conditionals and all the large scale operation of the language

## Equations

### 1. Equations give names to values

```haskell
answer = 42
```

### 2. Equations are not assignments

- There are no equations in imperative languages.
- There is no assignment in Haskell.
- In Haskell, anything with an `=` is an equation, effectively.

> I don't really get how equations differ from assignment.


## Tuples

- You cannot make tuples on the fly (not sure what that means)

## let .. in

- `let .. in ...` is an expression so it returns a value. You do not need to use a `return` keyword.

## if ... then ... else ...

- `if ... then ... else ...` is also an expression and therefore returns a value.


## 1.7 video

### Lambda functions

got it

## let expressions (blocks)

- They are expressions - ho hum
- The don't need `{}` - ho hum

### conditional expressions (if-then-else)

- it is also an expression and therefore returns a value

### higher-order functions

- functions that takes functions as arguments
- 



# 1.8 Reductions, Functions & Lists

- Imperative programs execute statement by statement keep track of variable values (the stack) and where it is in the program (the program counter).
- Functional programs, not having statements execute by *reduction*.

## Reduction

- **Reduction** is the process of converting an expression to a simpler form.
- Reduction is the sole means of execution of a functional program.
- A **redex** is a reducible expression.
- Each step of a reduction is called a reduction.
- A reduction can have only one possible path. E.g.,

```haskell

3 + (5 * (8-2))
--
  3 + (5 * 6)
--  >
  3 + 30
--  >
    33

``` 
- or it may have multiple
```haskell
(3+4) * (15-9)
-- >
  7 * (15-9)
-- >
  7 * 6
-- >
 42  
```

- but each step above contains only one redex



- The result doesn't depend on the reduction path!
- Every terminating reduction path gives the same result. This means that:
- Correctness doesn’t depend on order of evaluation.
- The compiler (or programmer) can change the order freely to improve performance, without affecting the result.
- Different expressions can be evaluated in parallel, without affecting the result. _As a result, functional languages are leading contenders for programming future parallel systems._

## Functions
- A *function* is defined by an *equation*.
- Have two fundamental operations
	- *function definition* (creating a function)
	- *function application* (using a function to comput a result).

## Lists

### List Sequences

- Works for all enumberated types

```haskell
['a' .. 'd']
-- ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']
```


