# Introducing IO Types

## Summary
- `IO` like `Maybe` is a context. It isn't a container like `[]` or `Map`.
- *IO Actions* are not functions because they don't meet the definition of a function.
- `main` is an *IO Action*.
- *Do-notation* allows you to work with `IO` types as if they were regular types.


## `IO` & `Maybe`
- `IO` & `Maybe` have things in common,
- they are both 
  - parameterized types
  - of kind `* -> *`
- Unlike `List` or `Map` they describe a context for their parameters rather than a container.

## Context?
`Maybe` creates a context for a single problem: sometimes a program's values may not be there.

`IO` creates a context for a wide variety of issues
- I/O is error prone
- I/O is stateful
- I/O is impure

Like
- `Maybe String` means you have a `String` that maybe missing, 
- `IO String` means you have a `String` that comes from I/O.

You cannot use an `IO` value outside the context of the `IO` type. I.e., you can't extract a value from an `IO` type as you can with a `Maybe`.

#### More on Context

The concept of context is still somewhat vague to me but here are some examples of context to keep in mind:
- `Maybe` creates a context for possible missing values.
- `IO` creates a context for code that is error prone, stateful or impure.
- `Future` creates a context for an eventually resolved value.

## IO Actions

*IO actions* work much like functions except they violate at least one of the 3 rules for functions which are
1. All functions must take a value.
2. All functions must return a value.
3. Anytime the same argument is supplied, the same value must be returned (referential transparency).

**Some** IO actions return no value, some take no input and others don't always return the same value given the same input.

> `IO` actions aren't functions.

> `()` is used to convey the concept of returning nothing in Haskell's type system.

> `main` is not a function, it is an IO Action

**Example 1**
```haskell
helloPerson :: String -> String
helloPerson name = "Hello" ++ " " ++ name ++ "!"

main :: IO ()
main = do
  putStrLn "Hello! What's your name?"
  name <- getLine
  let statement = helloPerson name
  putStrLn statement

```

In Example 1 `main` :
- doesn't return any meaningful value; it simple performs an ***action**.
- isn't a function. (because it doesn't return a value
 
> `main` is an  *IO action*


**Example 2: roll.hs**
```haskell
import System.Random

minDie :: Int
minDie = 1

maxDie :: Int
maxDie = 6

main :: IO ()
main = do
  dieRoll <- randomRIO (minDie,maxDie)
  putStrLn (show dieRoll)
```

Is `randomRIO` a function? - Nope.
- It is not a function because it is impure (i.e. random number)
- It is an **IO action**

## Do-notation

- *do-notation* allows you to treat `IO` types as if they were regular types.
- `<-` allows you to act as though a type `IO a` is just of type `a`

> do-notation can be used with any type that has an instance of `Monad` to perform computation in a context.

### In do-notation (`Let` & `<-`)
- Use `<-` when creating variables of `IO` type.
- Use `Let` whenever you create variables that aren't `IO` types.

```haskell
name <- getLine -- returns an `IO String`
let statement = helloPerson name
```

- `name <- getLine` returns an `IO String`
- But `helloPerson` takes a `String`, not an `IO String`
- Because `<-` was used to create `name`, `name` can be used as a normal `String`

> When designing code that uses I/O in Haskell it is good to write as little code that uses `IO` types as possible.

> Do-notation is not specific to `IO` and can be used with any `Monad`.

#### I'm a bit uncomfortable with the book's explanation.

 "Do-notation allows you to assign an `IO String` variable by using `<-`, to act like it’s an ordinary `String`, and then to pass it to functions that work with only regular `Strings`."

My current understanding of that is: "Do-notation allows you to assign an `IO String` to a variable using `<-` which can then be used as a regular `String`".

**Example 3**
*(Listing 21.12)*
```haskell
maybeMain :: Maybe String
maybeMain = do
  size1 <- Map.lookup 1 sizeData
  cost1 <- Map.lookup 1 costData
  size2 <- Map.lookup 2 sizeData
  cost2 <- Map.lookup 2 costData
  let pizza1 = (size1,cost1)
  let pizza2 = (size2,cost2)
  let betterPizza = comparePizzas pizza1 pizza2
  return (describePizza betterPizza)
```

- The thing to note here is the use of `return` which is required.
- `return` takes a value of a type and puts it back in the context of do-notation.

I wondered how to call `maybeMain` from `main`. Here it is:
```haskell
main :: IO (Maybe String)
main = do return maybeMain
```