## Book's notation
- $\mathbb{N}$ - the set of natural numbers 
	- i.e., nonnegative integers
- $\mathbb{Z}$ - the set of all integers.
- $\mathbb{Q}$ - the set of all rational numbers.
- $\mathbb{R}$ - the set of all real numbers.

## Definitions

**Set**
- a mathematical entity,
- completely determined by its elements (if any),
- but distinct from its elements (if any).

**Element**
- For every entity $x$ and set $S$,
- the statement: $x \in S$,
- read: "$x$ is an element of $S$"
- the statement being either true or false.

**Finite set**
- Can be defined by listing its elements within braces:
	- e.g., $\{1,3,5\}$,
	- is completely determined by the fact that its only elements are 1, 3, and 5.

**Empty set**
- is the set with no elements,
- $\{\}$,
- denoted $\emptyset$.

**Set builder notation**
- Defines a set as the collection of entities that satisfy a predicate.
- If $x$ is a variable ranging over a specific type of data and $P(x)$ is a predicate about that type of data,
- then the notation ${x | P(x)}$,
- denotes
	- the set of all things that have the same type as $x$,
	- about which $P(x)$ is true.
- E.g.,
	- If $x$ is a variable of type real,
	- then $\{x | x > 7\}$,
	- is the set of real numbers greater than 7.
	- $\{x | x > 7\}$ is called the **extension** of the predicate $P$.

> **Use of $|$**
>- $|$ in $\{x|x \hspace{0.1cm} is\hspace{0.1cm} a \hspace{0.1cm} natural \hspace{0.1cm} number \hspace{0.1cm} and \hspace{0.1cm} x < 8\}$,
>- should be read as,
>- "The set of all x such that x is a natural number and is less than 8".

**Russell's paradox**
- In short it concludes, there is no set of all sets.
- It can be avoided by ranging over a particular type of data (e.g., Integer).

**Cartesian product**
- see #cartesian-product 

**Relation**
(This section needs considerable improvement )
- $R$ is a relation from $A$ to $A$
- A relation is a set of ordered pairs
- Relations in math: $=, >, <, ...$

**Functions**

Specification:
A function $f$ is a mathematical entity with the following properties:
- $f$ has a *domain* and a *codomain*, each of which must be a set.
- For every element $x$ of the domain, $f$ has a value at $x$, which is an element of the codomain and is denoted $f(x)$
- The domain, the codomain, and the value $f(x)$ for each $x$ in the domain are all determined completely by the function.
- Conversely, the data consisting of the domain, the codomain, and the value $f(x)$ for each element $x$ of the domain completely determine the function $f$.

More:
- The domain and codomain are often called the source and target of $f$ respectively.
- $F : S \rightarrow T$ says the function $f$ has domain $S$ and codomain $T$.


----


$S, T$
$S \times T$

$proj_1:S \times T \to S$
$proj_2:S \times T \to T$



----

$X, Y, S, T$

$f:X \to S$
$g:Y \to T$

$f \times g : X \times Y \to S \times T$

----
**if**
$f:S \to T$
$g:T \to U$
**and**
$g \cdot f : S \to U$
**then**
$(g \cdot f)(x) = g(f(x))$

----

$\bot$ $\perp$ $\in$

----
**Homomorphism**
- $\varnothing$ is a homomorphism
- $\mathscr{G}$ is a graph
- $\mathscr{H}$ is a graph

Homomorphism $\varnothing$ form graph $\mathscr{G}$ to $\mathscr{H}$
- $\varnothing$: $\mathscr{G} \to \mathscr{H}$ 

is a pair of functions

- $\varnothing : G_0 \to H_0$
- $\varnothing : G_1 \to H_1$

with the property that

- if         $u:m \to n$                         is an arrow of $\mathscr{G}$,
- then    $\varnothing_1(u) : \varnothing_0(m) \to \varnothing_0(n)$    is an arrow in $\mathscr{H}$






