# Ch-02: Types and Functions

- A category consists of objects and arrows (morphisms). Arrows can be composed, and the composition is associative.
- Every object has an identity arrow that serves as a unit under composition.
- **Surface area:** The information we need in order to compose chunks.
	- Based off of: the surface area of a geometric object grows slower than its volumn.
		- Surface area gows with the square of its size.
		- Volumn grows with the cube of its size.
	- *Surface area* is the information we need in order to compose chunks
	- *Volumn* is the information we need to implement them.


## 2.2 Types Are About Composability

- In category theory not all two arrows can be composed
	- the ouput type of `f1` must match the expected input type of `f2`

The **stronger a type system is**  the more it inforces this rule.

## 2.3 What Are Types?

**Types**
- Are a set of values (`Bool`, `Char`, etc.)
- Sets/types can be finite (`Int`)  or infinite (`Integer`)

	
see also: [[type-types]]

## Bottom

> *Bottom* (`⊥`) is a member of all haskell types.

- Some functions may never terminate,
- therefore *bottom* ($\perp$) was introduced.
- *Bottom*
	- is a "value" 
	- and corresponds to a non-terminating computation.
- The type `f :: Bool  -> Bool` may return `True`, `False` or `⊥`.

**Partial & total functions**
- Functions that return bottom are called *partial*  
- Functions that return a result for evey possible argument are called *total*

## 2.4 Wy Do We Need A Mathematical Model

Becuase it is possible to perform formal proof of the correctness of software.

**Denotational semantics** 

> I'm ignoring the meaning of *denotation semantics*.

- For a long time, denotational semantics didn't seem like a good fit for for a considerable number of important/essential programs,
- until Eugenio Moggi discovered that computational effects can be mapped to monads.


## 2.6 Examples of Types

## Empty Set
The type corresponding to **empty set** is a type that's not inhabited by any values. (see #haskell-void ).

```c++
int f44() { return 44; }
```

- This is not a function that takes "nothing" because there is no value representing "nothing".
- The function actually takes a dummy value but it doesn't need to be written out since there is only one isntance of it.
- In Haskell, there is a symbol for "nothing" which is `()`, called *unit*.
- In Haskell, `()` is used for:
	- the constructor
	- the only value corresponding to a singleton set

The above C++ function in Haskell
```haskell
-- takes unit and returns Integer
-- unit is ()
f44 :: () -> Integer
f44 () == 44
```

Observe that:
- the function takes `()`
- every function of unit is equivalent to pick a single element from the target type.

Use of *`_`* in Haskell
- A function from a set $A$ to a singleton set (only has one element) maps every element of $A$ to the single se of that element. More ...

- A function $f$ that maps set $A$ $\{1,2,3\}$ to set $B$ $\{4\}$ always returns 4. 
- For every $A$ there is exactly one function.
- For `Integer` it is:

```haskell
fInt :: Integer -> ()
fInt x = ()
```

- For every `Integer` it returns one element `()`.
- Haskell introduces the wildcard `_` for an argument that is discarded.
- So the above can be written as

```haskell
fInt :: Integer -> ()
fInt _ = ()
```

Functions that can be implement3ed with the same formula for any type are *parametrically polymorphic*.

## Singleton set
The type tyat corresponds to a **singleton set** is a type that only has one possible value. In C++ it is `void`. Such a function takes a dummy value of which there is only one instance ever. In Haskell this dummy value is `()` pronounced "unit".

In Haskell, `()` is the syntax for the unit type as well as the type's constructor and the type's only value. Here is such a function:

```haskell
f44 :: () -> Integer
f44 () = 44
```

`f44` takes tye type unit and returns an integer and only ever returns one value, i.e., 44. Therefore, it is a function that maps to a set of 1, from empty set to a singleton.

Note that you could replace the value 44 with `f44()` and that 44 is one value from the set of Integers (i.e., type `Integer`).

## Two (2) element set

This is commonly called `bool`.

```haskell
data Bool = True | False
```


Functions to `Bool` are called *predicates*. They are functions that return `True` or `False`.











