# Ch-03 Categories Great and Small

## 3.1 No Objects

- Empty category/set
- No objects, therefore no morphisms.

## 3.2 Simple Graphs

- To build a category, just connect objects with arrows.

## 3.3 Orders

Book seems to imply that orders are categories.

### Preorder
Is a category where there is at most one morphism going from any object $a$ to any object $b$.

It has:
- identity, 
- reflectivity, 
- is composable, 
- composition is associative.

- **Partial order**
	- add the condition $a \leq b$ and $b \leq a$ then $a$ is the same as $b$.

- **Total order**
	- Is linear in that any two object are in relation in only one way.

## 3.4 Monoid as Set
#monoid

**Monoid:** a set 
- with a binary operation.
- Is associative
- Has a special *unit* type element



Both addition and multiplication form a monoid.

Moniods do not need to be commutative but can be. Here is a commutative monoid:
- $0 + a = a$
- $a + 0 = a$

String concatenation is a moniod, where the neutral element is an empty string, but is not commutative.

Here is a monoid in Haskell

```haskell
class Monoid m where
  mempty :: m
  mapend :: m -> m -> m

instance Monoid String where
  mempty = ""
  mappend = (++)
```

- `mempty` is the neutral element
- `mapend` is the binary operation


My thoughts on this statement: "...in Haskell there is not way to express the monoidal properties of mempty and mappend (i.e., the fact that `mempty` is neutral and `mappend` is associative.)"

- "`mempty` is neutral": (I'm not sure)
- "`mappend` is associative": means (I'm not sure)

And then more

(A) Haskell lets you express **equality of functions**
```haskell
mappend = (++)
```
(B) Which is different then expressing the **equality of values produced by functions**, as in:

```haskell
mappend s1 s2 = (++) s1 s2
```

(A) translates into the equality of morphisms in the category Hask/Set and can be generalized to other categories.

(B) is called *extensional* equality. It states the fact that for any two input strings, the outputs of `mappend` & `(++)` are the same.

My interpretation of (A) 
- `mappend` is a function
- `(++)` is a function
- they do the same thing
- they `=` each other
- therefore they are the same

My interpretation of (B)
- given two strings `s1` & `s2`
- `mappend s1 s2` 
- is the same as
- `(++) s1 s2`

Or let's express that more simply:
- `mappend = (++)` 
	- the function `mappend` 
	- is equal to the function `(++)`
	- This translates into the equality of morphisms in the category Hask.
- `mappend s1 s2 = (++) s1 s2` 
	- the result of calling function `mappend` with `s1` & `s2` 
	- is equal to
	- the result of calling `(++)` with `s1` & `s2` 
	- This is called *extensional equality*.

## 3.5 Monoid as Category

